This design document was written for a company called The Gaming Room who wanted a multi-platform application that supported users playing a pictionary / trivia style game called Draw It or Lose It.
The key requirements for the game were scalability, maintainability, secure RESTful API access to keep users and fair play secure and platform independence so it could be run across a variety of PCs, Macs, Linux and mobile devices. This required the software to be modular and well-documented for easy maintenance and growth.

One of the strengths of my documentation was the clarity and explanations for the UML disgrams, recommendations and overall thorough nature of my documentation. While working through the design document, it gave me a clear road to follow as I was developing the code. I needed specific implementations of specific things to meet the clients needs and following the design document let me achieve this. I(t was also helpful in choosing how to implement things to allow modularity and ease of development and maintenance.

If I could choose one part of the document to revise, it would easily be the Platform Evaluation section, I covered licensing and development costs and upkeep but I dropped the ball a bit on overall performance benchmarks and cost projections to support any arguments I was making. Improving on this would allow me to support my recommendations better and give the client a better picture of why I am making the recommendations that I am.

I interpreted the clients needs and then extended these needs to the user by creating a stable, secure environment to ensure player information and overall fair play was maintained. The game data would be stored in a place where only the portion of the server serving the game would be able to access and modify it. Also, for the users I ensured that they only have access to what they need when they need it using role-based access controls to keep information secure. Considering the users needs ensures you are developing a product that is not only desirable and functional for the user, but also allows adaptability for gamers with other needs tyo be able to access and use the software such as color blindness or auditory / sight issues.

I approached designing the software to not only apply the clients needs, but also employing UML design, best practices and design patterns. I would continue to use case analysis in the future to discern what needs to be handled at an in depth level. Domain modeling would be important to ensure that relationships and entities are clearly defined. Infrastructure as Code and CI/CD pipelines to accelerate and streamline development. Lastly, a security first architecture to ensure user data and game data are safe and secure for all users.
